.TH xpuz 6 "July-10-2013" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xpuz \- the jigsaw puzzle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xpuz
<options>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xpuz
is a fork of xjig 2.5, and has several extra options. 
xpuz creates a jigsaw puzzles from JPEG image files.
The pieces are randomly created according to the command line options. 
.PP


.SH SPECIAL EFFECTS

Tiles are freely formed and rotatable.

Tiles snap together very easy if they are dropped somewhere close to another
matching tile, when turned in the correct direction.

Puzzles can be single or doubled sided so you might have to flip
the tiles to the correct side to let them snap together.


.SH CONTROLS
The usual way to move the pieces on the screen should be to drag the piece
with the left mouse button to their destination. There is an option to allow 
the pieces to automatically rotate when dragging, the way they would if you 
pull or push them with your fingertip on a table.

In addition, the following movements are possible:

.ta 19
.nf
.in +2
click left:	rotate 90 degrees left
click right:	rotate 90 degrees right
click middle:	flip tile to backside
drag left:	rotator drag (as mentioned above)
   +middle:	pause rotator drag for a straight drag
drag middle:	straight drag
   +left:	pause drag for a static rotation
   +click left:	rotate 90 degrees left during drag
   +click right:	rotate 90 degrees right during drag
CTRL+click left:	same as click middle
.in -2
.fi
.PP
The right button has actually the same functionality as the middle button
so that 2 button systems shouldn't have problems. Only the "drag middle+click right"
move will not work in that mode, and the flipping has to be done with the help
of the CTRL-key.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Puzzle Selection"
.TP 12
.B -file \fIname\fP
use the specified file as the source image for the puzzle
.TP 12
.B -skill \fIp\fP
set the skill level. use with -file as a quick launch. \fIp\fP can be 1 to 5.
.TP 12
.B -side \fIp\fP
select the side of the image to be on top, if you don't like the mess
with the double sided tiles.
.SS "Size Selection"
.B
.TP 12
.B -w \fIx\fP
Select number of tiles in horizontal direction. The Images are automatically
rotated in portrait orientation before they are sliced. Therefore \fIx\fP
usually should be smaller than \fIy\fP of the next option. The default
is four.
.TP 12
.B -h \fIy\fP
Select number of tiles in vertical direction respectively. The default
is six.
.TP 12
.B -ts \fIn\fP
Select average tile width. Instead of explicitly specifying the number of tiles
by using the previous options -w and -h, the average tile width in pixels can be
selected and the values for \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP above are computed according to
to the selected size.
.SS "Image Options"
.TP 12
.B -ww \fIx\fP
Select width of image in pixels. This can be used to scale the image before
playing for the case that a very large image is the source.
.TP 12
.B -wh \fIh\fP
Select height of image in pixels. If only one of -ww and -wh, the aspect ratio
is kept constant.
.TP 12
.B -no_crop
The image is usually automatically cropped, since many images are surrounded by
frames or textual comments. The cropping stops at a reasonable amount of colors
per line or row. If this is not desired of if you want to puzzle with painted
images with few color, you should disable this feature.
.TP 12
.B -no_flip
Before tiling takes place, a landscape image is rotated to portrait mode, which
effects successive options like -w or -ww. If this is not desired, you can
switch this feature off.

.SS "X-Window options"
.TP 12
.B -display \fIname\fP
Select the display to connect to.

.TP 12
.B -no_shm
When the program was build with support of the MIT-SHM extension, it might crash
when started to display on a remote machine or X-terminal. You can deselect the
usage of the extension with this option.

.SS "Miscellaneous"
.TP 12
.B -no_anim
Turns off animation of rotation and flipping, for the case the machine isn't
fast enough to make it look nice.

.SH ZOOMING & PANNING
For not losing tiles at the window border and for getting more workspace,
the game has some zooming
and panning features to control the view on your desk. They are controlled via
the keyboard with the following functionality:

.ta 19
.nf
.in +2
Cursor Keys:	Pan View
Page-Up or Add:	Zoom in
Page-Down or Sub:	Zoom out
Home:	Reset to original size
End:	Zoom to fit all puzzle pieces into the screen area
.in -2
.fi

.SH COPYRIGHT
The original xjig 2.4 was developed by Helmut Hoenig in 1996. 
The copyright is show below.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright 1996, Helmut Hoenig, Heiligenhaus
.nf
.TP 8
email (for any comments):
Helmut.Hoenig@hub.de
.TP 5
smail (for gifts):
   Helmut Hoenig
   Hopfenstrasse 8a
   65520 Bad Camberg
   GERMANY
.PP
.ce 8

********************************************************
.fi
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software for any purpose and without
fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies.
.fi
